okay okay all right okay
so Graham downtown today I'm filling in
these are his slides so they're good
slides that they're good it's and so I'm
gonna give a lecture on the material you
prepared we're gonna be talking about
efficiency tricks for neural net so why
were devack is so fast so basically my
understanding is that or you guys left
off or at least in some previous left
lecture you got up to is that bunch of
neural stuff blah blah blah and then
softmax
to generate a word right it could be in
a language model out in leg bones could
be like a secret seek translation model
but anything you're doing them texture
usually bottoms out with sock Max's on
generating words and we'll talk about
today is that turns out to often be the
slowest part you know it seems like the
simplest part not in the slowest part
because when you get to the word you
have to touch the whole vocabulary to
make it normalize okay and so we're
gonna talk about speed ups for that
issue today and a little bit about
general GPU stuff so this is funny I
like this okay so glamorous life of an
AI scientist versus the reality so would
it like what is this is this like an ad
for cologne that says something about AI
that's awesome what yeah very
good-looking and researcher started with
is this something that everybody knows
well except me no okay
that's hilarious that's really weird
okay so perception of AI and then in
reality we're here like on the command
line like waiting for it to train for
days right okay so today is about maybe
you know reducing the waiting so we can
be a little bit more like this cologne
guy so why are neural networks slow what
can we do well big operations especially
over soft mics over large look at it so
I just talked to us that's one of the
big reasons that they're slow and so one
way we can speed that up is to
approximate these big operations or
approximate these soft maxes we can also
use GPUs to just leverage kind of more
rocking to you so we'll talk about kind
of both these approaches GPUs of course
love big dense operations they hate
sparse operations another thing we can
do is try to just reduce the total
number of operations besides making
operations dense and good for GPUs
finally our networks are big and our
data sets are big and we can also just
leverage kind of parallelism across
multiple operations so we'll talk about
those different kind of aspects but
first we're we're not gonna talk about
how to speed things directly on a GPU
we're going to talk about how to
approximate things to make them faster
and we're again focusing on this
vocabulary level soft mass that's really
slow so there's one whole class of
approaches for speeding up that final
softmax computation and even the
training that are based on sampling
examples to approximate the denominator
or things like that you'll see more
detail in a second we're going to talk
about three of them it's going to be
kind of a grab-bag sampler sampler over
here ah we're not gonna go into too much
detail on each well as you can see on
the website there's like up you know at
our brief and each one of those goes
into really clear detail in kind of one
of these methods so from lecture try to
get the general gist of these things and
then to understand in detail or if you
want to implement one you'll need for a
herd of those papers because it's we're
not gonna cover kind of enough detail
here I'd say
okay so a visual example of the softmax
so again imagine your imagine this is
like you guys covered like Alice TM
language models okay imagine this is an
Alice team language model and you've run
it like for the words so far you've got
your final hidden state and or hidden
representation and now you're about to
compute the probability of the word that
that comes immediately nest right this
is one of the conditional probabilities
that gone to the factorization of the
joint probability of the sentence okay
and so we imagine like all those neural
stuff went into getting this red vector
H which for all intents and purposes now
is just like it's just like a weights
vector to score the different words in
the vocabulary before we turn those
cores into probabilities okay and so we
can visualize that as Falls we have this
big blue matrix which is really this is
just a minutes of word imbalance right
each row is the embedding of one of the
words in our vocabulary and there's as
many rows here as there are words in our
vocabulary okay then we have H which
hits this matrix W that's how I imagine
makes just like it hits it okay and you
can imagine H when it gets multiplied in
here it kind of like goes up to the top
and slides along computing the inner
product with all the reps that's how a
matrix vector multiply works okay so
it's going along and it's it's scoring
all those word embeddings we also have
this green vector B these are just like
the bias terms for each of the embedding
the Gosselaar in them or we could just
pretend they're not there so it's not
super important so we doing this matrix
operation and now we end up with a
vector of scores that's as big as our
vocabulary okay and what we have to do
is turn that into a probability
distribution a multinomial distribution
over the symbols why I do that is
exponentiate the scores and then divide
by their songs right that's what a soft
max is okay all right so well preview
the way in general these sampling based
approximations are gonna work as its
Falls if we're training a language model
there is some particular word eraklyon
data that comes next rightly yeah we're
trying to attend
we've got our contacts that we were
interested in blah blah we have the word
that we're trying to optimize the
probability of that word that we saw on
the tray they're coming back okay so
there is a correct word we can get from
the train data that corresponds to some
row right in this matrix computation
okay so we're going to definitely use
that because we need to use that we're
going to use that row in this
convocation but we're going to try to
avoid using all the other rows what
we're gonna do is we're gonna kind of
grab a subset of other rows and these
are gonna be called negative samples Y
negative well each of these rows again
corresponds to a word and the other rows
are words that didn't come next so
they're kind of the things you want to
contrast with what you actually saw when
you shift your probability row when you
train the neural net okay and it's gonna
be different ways of selecting this kind
of sparse subset of rows and what we do
with them once we select them we're
gonna talk about a couple different
variants that make sense kind of
high-level big picture okay so let's get
into like really concretely why this the
exact thing is slow so let's just
actually write up the math for softness
so as I said right we've done that
matrix top we got our vector as scores I
usually I if you guys are into 7/11 last
you know I had the iPad with the pencil
like I keep having the urge to write on
the slides but so as you can see here
we've got the final hidden stick we got
a hidden state we're gonna use and now
we're doing the soft Mac so what that
looks like is compute that score vector
which we represent here is as X i given
h well actually that supposed to be a
particular interview not score vector
okay so we're trying we're trying to
compute the suppose x i's somewhere in
the vocabulary that corresponds to one
entry and that big score vector we
computed so we grab the interview
extradition it and then we divide it by
the sum of all the other expansion
injuries right and that's what the
denominator is
that's called the partition function or
the normalizer or whatever and we
separate out this notation and this is
fairly common machine learning just to
refer to the partition function z of the
kind of thing we're conditioning a lot
and so this is the thing that slow to
compute and you can see why it's got a
fun
over the vocabulary which could be like
millions of words right okay so that's
slow we don't want to so that's the big
picture that's what slots we're trying
to avoid we're trying to avoid doing
this full song so here's one simple way
to do this
it's called important sampling you may
have seen important sampling is like a
general technique for approximating
samples from from a distribution here
we're gonna use it
to approximate samples from the from our
current distribution they're using the
model the next word to get our negative
samples okay so what right back here
right this is really weird summer
summing over all the words all their
scores we don't want to touch them all
so it would be a good way to approximate
this well let's sample a couple words by
their probability and just add in their
terms right that's like a Monte Carlo
approximation to to this big expectation
okay so one way to sample them is as
follows we pick an arbitrary sampling
distribution Q okay this is what
important sampling does and we sample
some words from that that we're gonna
call our negative examples that go in
the denominator and then we re weight
their score contribution to account for
the fact that they were actually came
from Q and not from the probabilities
region that we're trying to get them
from no we're trying to approximate it
right so we kind of reweighed them by
their their score and divide by the
probability of us sampling them from our
approximate distribution and so often
what people use for Q is just uniform
distribution and so then you just have a
constant in the denominator here though
you can try more fancy things okay so
this is one way one really simple way to
estimate Z here grab a couple samples
from Q use this equation right here you
approximate the Z now this is a biased
estimator which is like a statistically
kind of bad thing when n is small but
when it is really big it works
reasonably well in practice just how
would be uniform does matter like you'll
get up the better your Q is a better
approximation Q is to the distribution
a sample from the more exact will be
with fewer samples does that make sense
so it's kind of weird right because like
we're approximating a partition function
not like a distribution but you can
think of it as approximate distribution
you can think of this is like this
partition function is supposed to sum up
kind of how all the mass was distributed
so we want to kind of sample from that
mass curve so that we're likely to get
points had a high mass so we're
including the biggest terms in that sum
does that make sense we're trying to
sample from P here well we can't compute
P without cooking enough so it's like
chicken egg so we use cute okay all
right so that's one way another way you
may have heard of is noise contrast of
estimation okay we're not gonna go into
too much detail kind of a crap bag this
is kind of a weird one
in my opinion here you kind of set up a
new training problem it's like you have
kind of a surrogate probability fitting
that you're trying to do so instead of
trying to optimize the probability of
this specific work coming next instead
of the other words you make a little a
little kind of machine learning problem
in and of itself you say well we know
what the true next where it is let's get
some negative samples some words that
weren't the true next word jawoll them
all up and try to make them on will be
good at guessing which of all those
samples which include the correct one
was actually the correct one so it kind
of turns it into a class of like a
binary classification problem and it
says it's weird if you sample your
negative examples using Q as we said
before then this is the probability that
the particular sample is is like the
correct one what you end up doing though
during training is you want to kinda
turn this into a training objective and
you have to approximate some of these
terms because they still involve P and
Q's kind of difficult to compute do some
approximations you end up with this
thing that looks like this it looks like
expectation of this term right here
expectation with respect to Q and then
where you would normalize you kind of
leave them
normalised and there's some reasons why
that works out if you want the details
of that just there's this really nice
Chris Dyer brought these kind of notes
on those congrats the best amazing to
check out well the basic idea here is
that you're kind of you're using kind of
a surrogate training problem which has a
connection to the original problem and
it and you can kind of do some
approximations to make the worry about
the normalizer go away now next there's
something that this is maybe familiar I
don't know this is maybe the most
commonly is thing is the thing that's
used in Word to fact it's called
negative sampling this is a special case
of noise contrast estimation where the
number of negative samples that we draw
is just the size of vocabulary and where
q is a uniform distribution so if you
make those two decisions and the
previous person I talked about you end
up with this approach and it works
reasonably well in practice there's this
is kind of a more specialized algorithm
that it's kind of only good for this
kind of word to that training problem
noise contrastive estimation is more
general you can apply it more generally
for neural models okay all right let's
talk about some other methods many
batching with negative sampling so this
is kind of a trick that you can put on
top of this approach so creating an
arranging memory on the GPU is is
especially expensive so like any time
you're kind of picking up your next
training example or picking up your next
batch you're kind of organizing your
data structures to get ready for the
processing that's going to happen on the
GPU that's slow you want to do as little
as possible so one thing you can do if
you're using these kinds of sampling
base approaches is you can use the same
set of negative examples for kind of
every element of your mini bash all
right it sounds a little weird but it
actually is fine there's there's a paper
about this so you can check out all
right so we remember what a mini batches
we're often doing kind of stochastic
gradient training of some sort so we're
not kind of looking at every training
instance before we make a single update
to our parameters we're actually picking
up subsets of training instances and
using them together to make updates to
our parameters and so each of those
little subsets it's a mini match and so
we're saying that you can just
back here we're gonna let go when you
pick kind of which rows of of of your
vocabulary you're actually going to talk
about you can make that decision once
for your whole mini batch and organize
stuff in memory you don't have to do it
for each instance in your mini batch and
that gives you some speed ups okay so
how do I do this okay
oh oh we're just it's not running it
we're just talking to okay yeah you're
gonna yeah okay so I guess for the
negative sampling code the beginning you
sort of write of course we're not
running in the past all right number
stick think we'll pasta yeah so do I
need to make a fun bit bigger right yeah
very shift boss pension fuss there we go
is that big enough all right cool okay
okay so the beginning sort of similar
the previous work we have the number of
negative samples but we reading all the
data and this time we need to calculate
all the word counts because you need
that to determine the probability sample
each word um then when you calculate the
probabilities for each word you just
have the normalize it by that take to
the power of three over four come and
this gives you the probability of
choosing each word it's a negative
sample um so then when you calculate a
sentence class you are going to first
sort of collect all the negative sample
the words that your nigger sampled
yeah can you guys list so this is you're
going through each of your mini batches
no this is going through each word in
the sentence as you go through the
sentence position by position and then
Youth word at that position right yeah
predicting sort of you have though this
is a skip grabs another window for the
skip grammars for each word you're
predicting yeah so there so there's not
doing a mini bashing here
Oh me batching can be handled
automatically with I know that okay okay
done it sure so I'm just wondering for
that last point it said that we extract
the negative samples once for each mini
batch that's a good idea but I guess
that's hard to see if that mini batches
happening automatically it's hard to see
where that happened to close so maybe
that happens automatically behind the
scenes right sure okay and here he
collects all the negative samples from
entire sentence okay uh at one time
right right right because part of the
asynchronicity on the GPU okay exams
I'll talk about later
yeah so yeah then you do the negative
plus a positive loss and some of them
it's a pretty simple adjustment to the
original word to vector yeah thank you
I'll call you up again for the next
examples okay so so that was you know a
little run over of a couple of these
sample based approximations we're gonna
talk now about a whole other class of
approximation a slightly different
flavor but same goal we're trying to
approximate this final softmax and make
it faster so these are kind of
structural approximations they change
the structure of the actual softmax
palmitate so it's night and really soft
max anymore and we're gonna cover three
of them there's other approaches we're
going to talk about a class-based
version which is really simple and kind
of obvious if you think about it and
then we're going to talk about
hierarchical softmax which is kind of
like class based on steroids and then
we're gonna talk about binary codes
which is a lot like hierarchical but you
kind of think of it in terms of just the
direct binary encoding of a word so
we'll see each of these okay so
class-based softmax so here's the simple
idea so instead of just getting from the
final representation in under on that to
the word that we're gonna spit out in
one big step which is what softmax does
we're gonna do it in two steps and each
of those steps is gonna be way way less
computationally expensive than the whole
kind of softmax
each of those steps is actually going to
be a soft merrick just a smaller one
that it is like this sum of how we
cluster our vocabulary into groups of
related words okay and then our first
step is using h we predict the cluster
all right so there it's only a soft max
over the number of clusters that we
predefined alright wait smaller than the
size of vocabulary okay if you chose not
too many clusters the final step is
given the cluster that you predicted now
predict the word the specific word in
that cluster and again softmax
flap much smaller because now you're
just talking about a small subset of the
vocabulary
okay so quiz suppose you have K clusters
in your vocabulary size V what's the
computational complexity of this it's
like K plus V over K right right
so if you set k equal to the square root
of V then this is just square root of V
right so that's a that's a big improving
square root of V man that's good okay so
well this can be taken further all right
what if you do a whole sequence of these
kinds of decisions where instead of
making softmax decision over a bunch of
clusters you're actually just making a
binary decision kind of which half of
the vocabulary are you in okay and so
one way you can do this is pick
something like brown clusters which
which are this kind of predefined
representation of words that have a
sequence of bits that kind of define
splits in the vocabulary and you can
predict that sequence of bits as a
sequence of little binary soft mixes
which is just like little logistic
functions okay
and so then the way you get to the final
word is you do a bunch of little binary
classifications that take you down this
kind of tree encoding and at the leaf
you end up with the word all right
what's the computational complexity
I always log something right log log Z
okay yeah okay so that does better right
it's even better than square root of e
okay finally this is actually in my
understanding this is very similar to
hierarchical softmax but it's just kind
of a different way of thinking about it
in a different way of kind of
parameterizing it is that you say
instead of thinking about us navigating
through the vocabulary by the sequence
of smaller decisions you just say each
word right has a bit representation
either you're using kind of brown
clusters which are like house you know
there's kind of smart bit
representations or you just encountered
each word as a number as soon as you
read in your data and those numbers
themselves are vectors of bits because
that's how we represent numbers on a
computer right so you just few words as
vectors of bits that are just kind of
pre specified somehow and then your
final output layer is about generating
that sequence of bits and you do it
independently for each position using a
little Bernoulli probability that comes
from the output of your neural net so
that looks like as you do the same kind
of blue red green computation except now
the number of rows is the number of bits
in your word representation just you
know log V again and instead of sticking
that score vector into a soft max to
make a multinomial distribution you push
it through a sigmoid and then you treat
each entry of that vector as a little
Bernoulli probability of hats okay so
now it's like a bunch of little
probability distributions each of which
is responsible for generating their
component of the words bit vector so
that makes sense okay so that's another
way and then let's
so the Sigma right so the Sigma this is
I wouldn't have written it like this
yeah the sigmoid will never equal the
zeroes and ones really the way to think
about this is this is your model and
this is your training data right and
yeah and so you say what's the
probability of these guys under this and
you just add up the like either one - er
or the yeah yeah that's right yeah does
anybody like to contradict that
different okay yeah it's already good I
mean you could imagine kind of jointly
trying to learn the optimal hierarchy
while learning that probabilities binary
decision I'm I'm sort of like far enough
from these kind of neural and betting
line of research that I don't know but I
suspect somebody's worked on that yeah
okay ah let's try it out I don't know
dine it so it's hard for me to talk you
guys to dine it good yeah well I don't
know this one is I assume that having
participants recording the other ones
there radicular cordially pushed it to
piazza boom okay
yeah so for the
binary example again it's pretty similar
to the normal word Tyvek but is that
first you calculate the total number of
bits by taking the binary representation
of the number of words so this gives you
the sort of maximum possible number you
need to generate it and then because it
is binary with ones and zeros anything
else will be contained within that
representation um so when you get the
score you just do the logistic of the
hidden layer times the embedding and
then you get the word representations in
the sentence in binary you can put those
into done it I mean you just take the
binary log loss between the scores and
that X so this will try to force the
output of the logistic to be as close as
possible to the correct binary sequence
for the word oh wait hey what should
okay it should just add up the
probabilities of the bit son of the
month that's equality yeah it's not like
l2 or anything that would be very yeah
so cool yeah good thank you yeah so
because um we're representing our words
as previously as an integer in the
default dictionary so we need to convert
that integer to a binary representation
of the integer to compare it so we're
just using numpy to get that binary
representation boom well I mean no I
guess not
apparently um but it's simple enough
because you can just get the binary
representation taking input vector with
that I mean you can just like divide
your number by two a bunch of times if
you want fun the bits out right thank
you
yeah I'm understanding this approaches
that yeah this is plain when you think
of it as binary encoding it's like yeah
I'll return bits when you think of it as
hierarchical softmax it's like you
smartly CHUM's your biggest yeah don't
quote me on that like make sure I'm
right about that yeah yeah doesn't
matter it also depends on how you
parameterize them and it's possible
there's something's there's some smart
way that you do the hierarchical thing
but check out those papers but uh but
you gotta get the flavor of the
different things that are being toyed
with here right yeah okay
okay I'm not gonna talk about air can
cause to just ignore that half of the
slide I will talk about this hybrid
model so you kind of course kind of
mixing Maps these different approaches
and one smart thing you can do is for
the really common part of your
vocabulary kind of treated differently
than the rare words in your vocabulary
right like most most your vocabularies
going to be rare words so to take like
every word above some count is going to
be some really small subsidy but kind of
way and so you take the common words and
you do a real actual softmax on them and
then for your rare words you can do
something else like this sigmoid for the
bitten cuttings or you could do
something hierarchical and so you can
actually mix and match and you can get
some gains that way I'm not gonna talk
about error correcting codes okay so now
you've seen two different styles to
approximating the this final soft wax
that you need to do in NLP models with
no nuts we're gonna talk a little bit
now about kind of just general GPU
exploitation good practices and some of
this will be kind of more general than
NLP and some a little bit more specific
but I'll I'll take a little 30-second
break now it's that good okay miss grant
Pig little breaks
okay so so gpus I mean I guess I said
this once before in 7/11 I think it's an
important point like to think about what
is the difference between a GPO - CPU
and again a little bit of this is gonna
be me kind of talking out of my area of
expertise but I think it's basically
right so there's kind of like a fixed
amount of silicon that you can kind of
print at one time right like a fixed
number of transistors and so it's not
that
GPUs like have way more transistors than
CPUs like maybe they do a little bit I
don't actually know the numbers the
difference is that they allocate their
transistors differently okay so CPUs are
all about kind of I mean now they're
always multi-core and like
hyper-threading whatever but max you're
getting like kind of eight hyper thread
sixteen hyper threads so they're
basically about really fast serial
computation which means they devote a
lot of transistors to control my project
branch in like all this crazy stuff that
all of us probably know a little bit
about from a machine instructors course
but like don't know nearly as much as
like a computer engineer GPUs on the
other hand allocate most of their
transistors to just kind of Rock compute
units do you remember a i'll use you
take like a life engineering course was
that arithmetic logical you know they're
really like this little component of
like the circuit diagrams that go into
tips that does like the actual brute
force heavy lifting like actually
multiplies numbers like actually adds
numbers does that kind of stuff so GPUs
have like a ton of those so GPUs are all
about parallelization being over run of
blunt threads in parallel by sacrificing
the kind of adaptability and the ability
of the CPU to kind of do kind of weird
things in your code so DVDs are good at
kind of doing simple kind of dense all
the same time but massively parallel
CPUs are good at kind of like doing
intricate stuff really fast but not in
parallel so to exploit GPUs you have to
talk about parallelism and we have to
like think a little bit about the kinds
of parallelism we might be using because
some of them are better for GPUs and
others does that make sense
I think that's about right
I'm not a computer engineer but I think
that's about right alright so three
types of parallelism these first two
okay yeah I know I know it the different
feelings for it so that's within
operation parallelism operation why it's
parallelism and then example wise
parallelism the first two are kind of
within your model and depending on how
you define the structure of your neural
model you might be able to make use of
more or less of these two types of
parallelization data parallelism on the
other hand is really simple it's if you
have it set up so you have a bunch of
data points and some of them can be
processed in parallel you just do
parallelism on the on the data set
itself and then you can get speed ups
that way okay
so I'll zoom in a little bit with in
operation parallelism so the classic
example of this would be like a vector
matrix multiply so this is like we
talked about this H comes in it hits the
blue square and it's like slides down
and computes up all the products I
really think of it it's kind of there's
agency to the to the vector anyway ah
but so that's like a bunch of
independent little dot products once you
get your HSN you're sliding it along you
can paralyze across across each of those
individual dot products that goes into
this matrix multiply matrix X term
multiplies and so here you if you have a
CPU you might have like you know four
threads and each of them is handling a
block on a GPU kind of each one of these
would get its own ALU hopefully it's
going to be really fast and this is
something GPUs are really really really
good at because you're basically doing a
simple mathematical operation and you're
doing the same one kind of over and over
again which is slightly different with
slightly different numbers and so
there's no worry on the GPU about like
wow you know this rat's gonna take this
kind of control branch and this one's
gonna take these other control branch
and there's all this bad stuff happens
on a GPU and it happens here they're all
following the same control path which is
nice and why it's fast so and yeah and
of course you can make uses on CPU as
well there's this cool library in KL
which is like hyper optimized and can
make use of CPU parallelism to make this
fast but not quite as fast as you can
get on a modern GPU operationalise
parallel
this is a little bit more tricky to get
working this is like well suppose as
part of our computation we had a bunch
of different steps one was a matrix
vector multiply one was a tan to know
there was a sigmoid another was like
that element-wise multiply I guess and
we knew because of looking at our model
diagram that these things didn't depend
on one another that they were actually
they could happen in parallel well you
can do that you can assign a thread to
come to each of these different
different operations and run them in
parallel and then collect the results at
the end and this might happen kind of
multiple times throughout your model
computation it can also take a little
work though to find the places where
there can be this parallelism where
there aren't dependencies and there's
some toolkits that kind of try to do
this all automatically
I don't design that do some of this I
think tensorflow does some of this okay
they'll try to find these places where
you can kind of do operations in
parallel a place this will come up again
later a place where you can do this kind
of manually is often with data read and
write operations so when you issue a
command to the GPU it happens
asynchronously like your main control
who can keep going so you can kind of
queue up a bunch of commands that will
finish when they finish and then you
kind of wait for them all so they can
they can all kind of happen in parallel
and sometimes it's good to get your data
reads going early so they can go in
parallel with the computation another
problem of this approach besides
identifying where you can run separate
different operations in parallel is
making sure that you kind of are have an
equal amount of work this isn't super
useful if this matrix computation on the
Left takes a hundred times longer than
any of the other operations then it
might as well be serial so that's kind
of tricky too okay
so and then finally there's example wise
parallelism and this is you know this is
kind of the simplest easiest kind if if
your data set has a bunch of different
sentences and your golf let's say is to
compute the probability of each sentence
well you can compute the probability of
each of those sentences in parallel by
just having one thread each sentence and
that's really easy to exploit on the CPU
GPUs a little bit harder okay and they
if you're actually kind of doing this on
on a cluster where you're paralyzing not
just across threads but actually across
some nodes then there's a lot of work
and how do you kind of like actually
make stuff accumulate back to the right
node and there's frameworks that kind of
make this easy for you but it's often a
lot nastier than trying to do it on one
one node GPU training tricks any
questions about that stuff so now I
maybe disagree a little bit with this
CPU like a motorcycle DP like an
airplane because here's the thing like
the top speed of a motorcycle is way
slower so the top speed an airplane
right GPUs like their clock rate like
it's not nearly as fast as what I can
get on my like overclock like cool Intel
Core I so I have a TV at home I have a
clock at five point two gigahertz
it's pretty cool right so you can make
CPUs really really really fast for
single threat so I think their top speed
is faster
what GPUs have is parallelism so I would
say maybe the more apt analogy here
would be CPU is like a motorcycle really
really high top speed really fat
acceleration it can go kind of through
any terrain right and go around corners
really good GPU is like a bus okay it
takes a long time to get started doesn't
have a super high max speed takes a long
time to like slow down can't do any
off-road stuff right but I could take a
whole bunch of people at the same time
so that's why I say well if you want you
can you can take airplane one if you
like it better okay so here's a here's a
simple example of just sort of how big
improvement do you get friend you
probably seen these before like I'm
posting online if you're ever looking
like a new buy a new graphics card often
you're going like grabs the internet for
like these kinds of comparisons how big
of a speed-up coming it but so this is
the comparison of how long does it take
to do a matrix-matrix multiply on a CPU
versus a GPU as a function of the matrix
size so you can see here this matches
our airplane bus scenario perfectly when
you have a really small matrix where you
don't you know there's not a lot of
parallelism to be had it's just about
like chopping on your bike and go from
point A to point B as fast as you can
then the CPU dominates it's actually
faster than GPU but once you have like
you know milli
of passengers to ferry across from point
A to point B coming back and forth three
motorcycles a dumb idea the plot starts
to take over and you start seeing that
the GPU dominate here and the bottom you
can see kind of the ratio there's
there's kind of like some critical
window of small enough matrices before
you start using the true power of the
GPU and it's not like the more data you
throw out the GPU is the bigger games
you can see if here because it's not
like there's infinite a I'll using the
GPU but there's just some threshold
afterwards you have enough kind of data
you have enough parallelism and that
stuff to do in peril that you can use
all this al use at the same time so it's
a little silly but like one way that you
can I don't even know how to like one
way that you can tell if you're
effectively using your GPUs power is by
how hot it gets like if if you're
sitting there and you can't hear the GPU
like breathing like you're probably
doing something efficient in my opinion
it's kind of I we were like one time in
grad school like I was I got obsessed
with trying to crack this zodiac cipher
like the Zodiac killer has a cipher it's
looking hmm I found a way to like
basically do random restarts in parallel
on a GPU uh and the hope was that with
enough random restarts maybe you could
crack this uncracked cipher so just not
compute maybe I was also really close
winter and I only have an electric
heater so my electric bill be really
high so I was like I'll just use honest
use my GPUs my theater and it works
pretty well I felt like I can heat up a
small room you got like two or three GPS
and plus maybe you crack the ciphers I
didn't cry the sacred anyway okay so
practicality so there's some advice from
Graham so if you're using dinette I
sounds like he's saying code on the CPU
and use the CPU for profiling and so
that often I guess would mean like using
small subsets of your data during
development and profiling he also says I
guess a lot of experiences but I guess
that I mean I guess this makes sense so
it'll be times kind of by nature our
sparser than other AI fields like
machine vision and there's some times
where it's just too much work or it's
just really impossible to like try to
find these dense operations that GPUs
can do
and univ it just is faster honesty it's
really it's just not a parallel task
there can be NLP things like that so
sometimes you might just want to see how
well you can go into CPU the times when
you see big gains in the GPU are very
big networks okay so where you have like
a lot of different operations kind of
happening in parallel to finally get to
the end of the network or places where
you have soft maxes with no
approximation like we were talking about
earlier those of course are it's a lot
of compute and if you're not gonna
approximate a GPU can help you do that
compute gains we do mini batching and
that's I guess because you get data
parallelization in the mini bash and
then just generally optimize things
properly so here's a couple of speed
tricks from grams and they seem like
these are these are good and simple and
usable so the first one something that
you do once at the beginning of the
sentence something that you can do once
at the beginning sentence don't do it
for every word okay so this is like just
kind of obvious if you've ever tried to
optimize code right like bad in the top
you see for each word app in this little
computation which is w times C plus X
well you suddenly see right here W times
C that doesn't depend on X like we
should just compute that once and cache
it and then and then reuse that value so
you can see that happening down here in
the good code okay I mean this is
something like I'm sure you've done it
before like even on CPUs optimizing
loops and like pre-caching computation
this is important still important when
you're talking about Dyna and GPUs speed
trick to reduce the number of operations
okay so what this means it doesn't mean
like reduce the total amount of compute
that you're kind of asymptotically
talking about this means like just do it
in bigger chunks like for example if you
think you wanted to do a bunch of matrix
vector multiplies but it turns out that
matrix you're multiplying the vectors by
each time is just the same matrix you
might take a step back and realize
you're just doing a matrix-matrix
multiply right and that's what this says
so here's
cases a bunch of matrix vector
multiplies with the same matrix and then
the good case is Oh actually let's just
do a matrix matrix multiply and so this
will be faster it's a lower one because
kind of less stuff has to happen of
staging stuff and going back and forth
between CPU GPU speed trick three reduce
CPU GPU data movement so this I always
kind of have trouble with this unless
you're kind of like directly writing the
like read write operations and like ROC
CUDA because it's hard to know what's
happening behind the scenes but when you
do move memory this is what I'm saying
earlier about asynchronous you try to do
it as early as possible because behind
the scenes the system will kind of
overlap computation when possible
between the CPU and GPU so if you get a
data read going early there's a chance
that other stuff could be slotted in to
run in the meantime so here's an example
of that bad you're going through words
in the sentence and for each word you're
actually going to like input some more
data okay so here go through the words
in the sentence and breach word as you
grab them right before you do your
processing on them reading the data
there bad idea good idea is ahead of
time just relocated for all these words
and then go through the words and when
that thing is available do the
processing and so you so you can kind of
like be simultaneously reading and
overlapping with processing until you'll
probably see this in some example code
okay what about memory this yeah for me
this often when I've been writing my own
kind of CUDA stuff has been the big
issue most gp when I was doing this
stuff it was like three three gigs is
all we had I was well I did that thing
that I'm talking about with track two
zodiac cipher I was doing weird stuff
like I was I wasn't even using so you
never use doubles first of all you guys
know that on GPUs like double precision
we don't really need it if you're
running on precision you're gonna do
something like being log space anyway or
like do your own kind of scaling
operations floats are good enough and
they're way faster on the GPUs and
doubles are so just do everything floats
well I was actually doing I think I was
like packing numbers into like 8-bit
precision by using cares and all this
weird stuff and then what kind of like
variables like that's because I had to
fit in three gigs now we have 12 gigs a
little bit better
but it's still pretty crunch compared to
how much kind of system ram or used to
nowadays so member is a major issue
memory minimize unnecessary operations
you can use multiple GPUs but when you
do that you start having to worry about
more memory movement which can slow you
down
so it's not like necessarily if you have
in GPUs it's not necessarily in full
speed up there's overhead ok so let's
try it
don't you need 64 to the dress 12 gigs
of memory what's the max you can address
about 32 bits what's 2 to 30 I remember
like there's some switch over back of
the day with what wouldn't even CPU
article 32 bit for yeah yeah it was 4000
I'm sorry divert
so that's why I think this is just sort
of an example that is unnecessarily slow
um so it is using this very
sophisticated training dataset which he
makes up using random numbers um and
then when he does the processing it's
basically just doing everything he said
essentially not to do so here's a double
loop and inside the double loop they're
doing lunges right stuff like that yeah
so I mean this is just kind of obvious
this stuff look like it you're putting
in Python it would be dumb to do I guess
like if you're just writing like CPU
caught on live alone I don't know it
transfers here as well of course
so like this should be outside the wide
loop and stuff like that yeah don't do
this yeah
it's not really much to speak for this
yeah like this this happened it gets
even a little bit more if you're writing
your own raw crude akkad like you can
get really obsessed with this kind of
stuff too because sometimes not only are
you worried about like well let's pre
compute anything we can pre-compute
you're also worried about like what's
the total number of active registers
because if there's too many it's gonna
have to hit cashews on the GPU like it's
really slow and so you do all this weird
like staging of computation like being
aware of the specific limitations of
your specific GPU that if you weren't
like really fast but that's like the
smoke solutions for particular
algorithms for a particular GPU and it's
usually not advisable to spend all the
work to do that okay and I think that's
it some of the early finishing lecture
today I can just open it up to questions
if I can
if I know the answers I've seen it so
that couldn't so winded yeah because we
had pump GPUs before today I don't know
maybe it makes it easier so they'll have
to do something weird to drop the point
the 12-years questions
yeah so it has to do with that being a
biased estimator check out the crisp
tire no it's really that he goes through
both exactly exactly what those
objectives are how they're connected
softmax and their properties for this
person's organization like so here
negative sampling cube is by definition
you know cyberspace I think that's like
what's the negative I think that what is
comprised of estimation to have closest
to but negative sampling that's the
special case of NCE where Q is uniform
and their size yeah right and you can
actually get the underlying distribution
because that's where you're trying to
prosper right
no so it's a bit different here so the
way to think that I think is you're
approximating the normalizer you're
approximating the partition function so
much so it's you have the true example
and you're performing a distribution and
you want that this reason to put as much
mass as possible on that true example
but you're not franchising this being
directly in terms of master grunt
granted in terms of score which doesn't
have to someone and sitting out there
kind of making something 1 so that you
make sure you're kind of keeping track
of all your mass and not to know the
probability so for a given scoring
function what you'd like to do is just
sum of all the scores but you can't
actually touch all the positions where
the sports lived in that vector what you
try to do just sample a couple them
something that one can say that has an
approximation is locked so you really
look like you if you want it to give you
examples where most of the score is do
you want Q to actually be your wildest
but the model this region is the thing
you're trying to be cute by normalize
you can't for example so you use
something else use uniform we had
something better to do that
while you shop maximum ultimately is in
Sparks right like you Slater he presents
kind of tensioner on that it's going to
science scores a little bit everybody
lead I'm not smart if these are sparse
you need to exploit that will be in
another way and we speed this up you've
got your back propagating into all of
them I believe because the objective is
going to talk about the negative samples
as well which means that when you
differentiate you're going to have to
back props through the negative samples
[Music]
right and remember the normalizer is
changing as you're learning right right
like that's not like just can do it once
it's like every time you change the
weights you have to yeah so it's part of
the backdrop because like it it's part
of your objective it depends on the
finger differentiate with respect to and
so it's involved in the grading
computation okay well short class today
I hope I didn't say anything wrong
yeah